BigQuery workaround for Global Connections (#5976)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connnect-bigquery.md

## Configuration

To learn how to optimize performance with data platform-specific configurations in dbt Cloud, refer to [BigQuery-specific configuration](/reference/resource-configs/bigquery-configs).

### Account level connections and credential management

> With [global connections](/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#migration-from-project-level-connections-to-account-level-connections), you can now re-use connections across multiple projects. In addition, connections are now attached at the environment level (formerly project level), so you can utilize multiple connections inside of a single project (to handle dev, staging, production, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can re-use connections across multiple projects with [global connections](/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#migration-from-project-level-connections-to-account-level-connections). Connections are attached at the environment level (formerly project level), so you can utilize multiple connections inside of a single project (to handle dev, staging, production, etc.).
```

> In dbt Cloud, BigQuery connections currently expect the credentials to be handled at the connection level (and only BigQuery connections). This was originally designed to facilitate the creation of a new connection via the upload of a service account keyfile. Here we describe how to override credentials at the environment level, via [extended attributes](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes), **to allow project administrators to manage credentials independently** of the account level connection details being used for that environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BigQuery connections in dbt Cloud currently expect the credentials to be handled at the connection level (and only BigQuery connections). This was originally designed to facilitate creating a new connection by uploading a service account keyfile. This describes how to override credentials at the environment level, via [extended attributes](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes), _to allow project administrators to manage credentials independently_ of the account level connection details used for that environment.
```

> For a project, we will first create an environment variable to store the secret `private_key` value. Then we will use extended attributes to override the entire service account JSON (due to a constraint of extended attributes, we can't only override the secret key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a project, you will first create an environment variable to store the secret `private_key` value. Then, you will use extended attributes to override the entire service account JSON (due to a constraint of extended attributes, you can't only override the secret key).
```

1. **New environment variable**

> - Create a new **secret** [environment variable](/https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/environment-variables#handling-secrets) to handle the private key: `DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a new _secret_ [environment variable](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/environment-variables#handling-secrets) to handle the private key: `DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY`
``

## Configuration

To learn how to optimize performance with data platform-specific configurations in dbt Cloud, refer to [BigQuery-specific configuration](/reference/resource-configs/bigquery-configs).

### Account level connections and credential management

> You can re-use connections across multiple projects with [global connections](/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#migration-from-project-level-connections-to-account-level-connections). Connections are attached at the environment level (formerly project level), so you can utilize multiple connections inside of a single project (to handle dev, staging, production, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can re-use connections across multiple projects with [global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#migration-from-project-level-connections-to-account-level-connections). Connections are attached at the environment level (formerly project level), so you can utilize multiple connections inside of a single project (to handle dev, staging, production, etc.).
```

## Configuration

To learn how to optimize performance with data platform-specific configurations in dbt Cloud, refer to [BigQuery-specific configuration](/reference/resource-configs/bigquery-configs).

### Account level connections and credential management

You can re-use connections across multiple projects with [global connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections#migration-from-project-level-connections-to-account-level-connections). Connections are attached at the environment level (formerly project level), so you can utilize multiple connections inside of a single project (to handle dev, staging, production, etc.).

BigQuery connections in dbt Cloud currently expect the credentials to be handled at the connection level (and only BigQuery connections). This was originally designed to facilitate creating a new connection by uploading a service account keyfile. This describes how to override credentials at the environment level, via [extended attributes](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes), _to allow project administrators to manage credentials independently_ of the account level connection details used for that environment.

> For a project, you will first create an environment variable to store the secret `private_key` value. Then, you will use extended attributes to override the entire service account JSON (due to a constraint of extended attributes, you can't only override the secret key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a project, you will first create an environment variable to store the secret `private_key` value. Then, you will use extended attributes to override the entire service account JSON (you can't only override the secret key due to a constraint of extended attributes).
```

1. **New environment variable**

    - Create a new _secret_ [environment variable](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/environment-variables#handling-secrets) to handle the private key: `DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY`
    - Fill in the private key value according the environment

>     To automate your deployment, you can use the following [admin API request](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Create%20Projects%20Environment%20Variables%20Bulk), with `XXXXX` your account number, `YYYYY` your project number, `ZZZZZ` your [API token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To automate your deployment, use the following [admin API request](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Create%20Projects%20Environment%20Variables%20Bulk), with `XXXXX` your account number, `YYYYY` your project number, `ZZZZZ` your [API token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication):
```

    ```shell
    curl --request POST \
    --url https://cloud.getdbt.com/api/v3/accounts/XXXXX/projects/YYYYY/environment-variables/bulk/ \
    --header 'Accept: application/json' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer ZZZZZ' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data '{
    "env_var": [
    {
        "new_name": "DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY",
        "project": "Value by default for the entire project",
        "ENVIRONMENT_NAME_1": "Optional, if wanted, value for environment name 1",
        "ENVIRONMENT_NAME_2": "Optional, if wanted, value for environment name 2"
    }
    ]
    }'
    ```

2. **Extended attributes**

>     In the environment details, fill the [extended attributes](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes) block with the following payload (replacing `XXX` with your relevant information):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the environment details, complete the [extended attributes](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#extended-attributes) block with the following payload (replacing `XXX` with your corresponding information):
```

    ```yaml
    keyfile_json:
      type: service_account
      project_id: xxx
      private_key_id: xxx
      private_key: '{{ env_var(''DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY'') }}'
      client_email: xxx
      client_id: xxx
      auth_uri: xxx
      token_uri: xxx
      auth_provider_x509_cert_url: xxx
      client_x509_cert_url: xxx
    ```

>     If you require [other fields](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/bigquery-setup#service-account-json) to be overridden at the enviromnent level via extended attributes, please respect the [expected indentiation](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#only-the-top-level-keys-are-accepted-in-extended-attributes) (ordering doesn't matter):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you require [other fields](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/bigquery-setup#service-account-json) to be overridden at the environment level via extended attributes, please respect the [expected indentation](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#only-the-top-level-keys-are-accepted-in-extended-attributes) (ordering doesn't matter):
```

    ```yaml
    priority: interactive
    keyfile_json:
      type: xxx
      project_id: xxx
      private_key_id: xxx
      private_key: '{{ env_var(''DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY'') }}'
      client_email: xxx
      client_id: xxx
      auth_uri: xxx
      token_uri: xxx
      auth_provider_x509_cert_url: xxx
      client_x509_cert_url: xxx
    execution_project: buck-stops-here-456
    ```

>     To automate your deployment, you first need to [create the extended attributes payload](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Create%20Extended%20Attributes) for a given project, and then [assign it](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Update%20Environment) to a specific environment. With `XXXXX` your account number, `YYYYY` your project number, `ZZZZZ` your [API token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To automate your deployment, you first need to [create the extended attributes payload](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Create%20Extended%20Attributes) for a given project, and then [assign it](https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cloud/api-v3#/operations/Update%20Environment) to a specific environment. With `XXXXX` as your account number, `YYYYY` as your project number, and `ZZZZZ` as your [API token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication):
```

    ```shell
    curl --request POST \
    --url https://cloud.getdbt.com/api/v3/accounts/XXXXX/projects/YYYYY/extended-attributes/ \
    --header 'Accept: application/json' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer ZZZZZ' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data '{
    "id": null,
    "extended_attributes": {"type":"service_account","project_id":"xxx","private_key_id":"xxx","private_key":"{{ env_var('DBT_ENV_SECRET_PROJECTXXX_PRIVATE_KEY')    }}","client_email":"xxx","client_id":xxx,"auth_uri":"https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth","token_uri":"https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token","auth_provider_x509_cert_url":"https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs","client_x509_cert_url":"xxx"},
    "state": 1
    }'
    ```

>     **You will need to make a note of the `id` returned in the message**. It will be used in the following call. With `EEEEE` the environment id, `FFFFF` the extended attributes id: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _Make a note of the `id` returned in the message._ It will be used in the following call. With `EEEEE` the environment id, `FFFFF` the extended attributes id: 
```
